>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's go
through how we can fix mistakes.
So I'm going to check out
the exercise6 branch.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
I'm going to make some bad changes,
>> Nina Zakharenko: To my hello.template
file.
If I look at hello.template,
we'll see I have some bad data in there.
Well, no worries,
I can just check out this copy.
It's not committed yet.
So I can just overwrite
the working area with
the last good copy in the staging area.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And I do that
will git checkout --hello.template.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now
if I look at that file,
we'll see that it's back to normal, great.
If we want to check out a file
from a specific point in time,
if we wanted it to know what hello looked
like before we made it a template,
back when it was good old hello.txt,
we can use git log.
We use -- name status, and
that -- follow that we learned
about in the previous section.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And I'm going to
simplify my log output oneline and
pass in the name of the file.
Great, we saw when it was added and
when it was deleted.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
when it was renamed.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
we're going to copy this shaw.
we're going to copy this shaw, and.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We want
the commit before this one.
So we can either say, this commit with
a hat or we can just copy this commit.
But if we want to get back that file,
>> Nina Zakharenko: We
would do a git checkout.
I'm gonna specify the commit
before it got deleted.
Because it's not present
in that deleted commit.
And I'm gonna check out hello.txt.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Look, it's back.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
it's in the staging area.
At this point,
we don't really wanna keep it there.
So I'm just gonna run a reset.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Can someone tell me
what HEAD is pointing to at this point?
The last commit we made, right?
So I'm gonna reset hello.txt
back to that commit.
And it doesn't exist in that commit.
So now it's becoming untracked file,
removed from the staging area.
>> Nina Zakharenko: What if
I remove my hello.template?
>> Nina Zakharenko: If I run a git status,
we'll see that it's now deleted.
Well, let's make a commit.
>> Nina Zakharenko: If later on we decide
that we actually that file was really
important, and we need it back, I'm gonna
show you how you can track it down.
Track down to where you deleted it,
and bring it back.
For this, we're gonna use that
handy diff-filter from earlier.
And I'm gonna to pass in D for deleted.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
the name of my file.
And we'll see here that autocomplete
doesn't work because this file doesn't
exist anymore.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Oops.
>> Nina Zakharenko: This is the kind
of error that you might see if you
forget those two double dashes.
So I didn't specify that this was
the start of our named arguments.
So this ambiguous argument error is the
kind of error you might see if you forget
the So I'm gonna add that
-- to my hello.template.
And now we're gonna see where
we can track it down and
see what commit it was deleted from.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
that would be this commit.
Oops, I'm gonna use --no-pager here.
So that we can see
the output in my terminal.
Great, so this is the commit
where we deleted hello.template.
We can check it back out
>> Nina Zakharenko: By specifying
the commit before, right?
Doesn't exist in that commit.
And now it's back.
It's in our staging area.
Gonna skip the solution for
where we clear our repo.
I'm sorry,
clear our working area with g-t clean.
I'm just going to manually
delete this file so
that my staging area is clean again.
And I'm gonna talk about git reset.
So at this point, I never committed my
hello.template file after I deleted it.
It's staged for commit.
You can use git reset to unstage it.
By default, if you don't specify
an argument here, it just assumes HEAD.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Great, so
now it's an untracked file.
And that's because it was
deleted in that last commit.
If we use git reset on a file,
on a file, instead of a commit,
it works in mixed mode, so that means
it's gonna copy it to the staging area.
But it's also gonna keep your
copy in the working area.
>> Nina Zakharenko: It's also possible
to check out files from specific
versions using git recent, but
I'm going to move past that and
talk to you about git reset --hard.
So if you really messed up,
you don't know how you got here and
you just want your repository to look
exactly like it did the last commit,
you can use git reset --hard.
It's gonna blow away our untracked files,
anything in the staging area.
So if I do that and
I look at git status again,
if I had
>> Nina Zakharenko: Mid changes,
I'm sorry,
hello.template is still here because
it's not present in the current commit.
>> Nina Zakharenko: All right,
if it was, it would be gone.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Remember that we can
undo a git reset by using original HEAD.
So if I look at my history.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
I see that I want to reset a repo
back to where we
>> Nina Zakharenko: We
placed our greeting tokens.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Say, I want to.
>> Nina Zakharenko: I'm sorry.
>> Nina Zakharenko: I want to
look at the two previous commits.
And I'm gonna do that with the -n2,
or -n 2, not -2.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So,
if I wanted to, if I did a git reset,
let's say to here,
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
now my HEAD pointer is pointing,
it's exercise6 which is now
pointing at this commit.
If I wanted to undo that,
I could do git reset ORIG_HEAD,
and it'll get me back
to where I need to be.
>> Nina Zakharenko: If we wanted to
undo deleting hello.template, but
we didn't wanna alter history with
a reset, we can use a git revert.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
if I look at my log and find the commit
where we deleted the hello.template,
I wanna be able to revert it.
I had some technical difficulties
with exercise6 earlier.
And I wanted to make sure that everyone
had a good idea of how revert worked.
So I'm gonna show that
to you one more time.
I'm currently on branch exercise6.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
if I look at my log, I'll see that I have
a commit here where I
deleted hello.template.
And if I look, it's gone, and
I wanna revert that commit.
Let's say that I've already pushed it,
I don't wanna rewrite history.
I wanna get back hello.template but
I wanna make a new revert commit.
In order to do that, I would need to
specify the commit where
I deleted hello.template.
And that's going to open an editor.
And the editor will say revert and
the commit name.
It'll specify which commit it's reverting.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
notice here at the bottom,
it'll also show what changes
are going to be committed.
It's a new file, hello.template.
It's the opposite of the commit
where we deleted the file.
So now if I save this and exit,
we'll see that one commit was created,
the revert of delete hello.template.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And if I see,
it's back here in my working area.
And that's everything about reverts.
If I look at the log again,
>> Nina Zakharenko: We'll
see that that revert commit is there.
It's a new commit.
This commit where I deleted
hello.template is the same.
It hasn't changed.
So I can safely push this
without rewriting history.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
that's it for exercise6.